# Veritas-Campus-Learning-Management-System
The Learning Management System (LMS) is a web-based application built using the MERN stack

\# Learning Management System (LMS) for Diploma Programs at Veritas
International Campus

\## Table of Contents - \[Project Overview\](#project-overview) -
\[Features\](#features) - \[Tech Stack\](#tech-stack) -
\[Installation\](#installation) - \[Usage\](#usage) -
\[Configuration\](#configuration) - \[Project
Structure\](#project-structure) - \[Contributing\](#contributing) -
\[License\](#license) - \[Contact\](#contact)

\## Project Overview The \*\*Learning Management System (LMS)\*\* is a
web-based platform developed using the \*\*MERN Stack\*\* (MongoDB,
Express.js, React.js, Node.js) to streamline course management, student
engagement, and performance tracking. It features role-based access for
\*\*Admins, Instructors, and Students\*\*, providing a tailored
experience for each user type.

\## Features - \*\*Course Management:\*\* Create, update, delete, and
manage courses. - \*\*User Authentication:\*\* Secure role-based
authentication (Admin, Instructor, Student). - \*\*Dashboard:\*\*
Interactive dashboards for tracking student progress and course
analytics. - \*\*Assignments & Quizzes:\*\* Online submission, grading,
and auto-evaluation. - \*\*Notifications & Alerts:\*\* Real-time updates
for deadlines, grades, and announcements. - \*\*Audit Trails &
Reports:\*\* Log user activities and generate performance reports. -
\*\*Responsive Design:\*\* Accessible across desktops, tablets, and
smartphones. - \*\*Security & Scalability:\*\* HTTPS enforcement,
encrypted data storage, and support for 100+ concurrent users.

\## Tech Stack - \*\*Frontend:\*\* React.js, Tailwind CSS -
\*\*Backend:\*\* Node.js, Express.js - \*\*Database:\*\* MongoDB/MySQL -
\*\*Authentication:\*\* JWT (JSON Web Tokens), bcrypt for password
hashing - \*\*Deployment:\*\* Cloud-based hosting (e.g., Vercel, AWS, or
Azure)

\## Installation \### Prerequisites Ensure you have the following
installed: - \*\*Node.js\*\* (v16 or later) - \*\*MongoDB\*\* (if using
locally) - \*\*Git\*\*

\### Clone the Repository \`\`\`sh git clone
https://github.com/your-username/LMS.git cd LMS \`\`\`

\### Install Dependencies \#### Backend \`\`\`sh cd server npm install
\`\`\`

\#### Frontend \`\`\`sh cd client npm install \`\`\`

\## Usage \### Running the Backend \`\`\`sh cd server npm start \`\`\`

\### Running the Frontend \`\`\`sh cd client npm start \`\`\`

The application will be accessible at \`http://localhost:3000/\`.

\## Configuration Create a \`.env\` file in the \`server\` directory
with the following variables: \`\`\`env PORT=5000
MONGO_URI=your_mongodb_connection_string JWT_SECRET=your_jwt_secret
EMAIL_SERVICE_API=your_email_api_key \`\`\`

\## Project Structure \`\`\` LMS/ ├── client/ \# React.js frontend ├──
server/ \# Express.js backend │ ├── models/ \# Database models │ ├──
routes/ \# API routes │ ├── controllers/ \# Business logic │ ├──
middleware/ \# Auth & security layers │ ├── config/ \# Environment
variables & configurations │ ├── logs/ \# Audit logs │ ├── server.js \#
Main server file ├── README.md ├── .gitignore ├── package.json \`\`\`

\## Contributing Contributions are welcome! To contribute: 1. Fork the
repository. 2. Create a new branch (\`feature-branch\`). 3. Commit your
changes. 4. Open a pull request.

\## License This project is licensed under the \*\*Gamage Recruiters\*\*.

